.\" f1tattoo is released under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.TH "f1tattoo" "1" "26 Feb 2014"
.br
.SH "NAME"
f1tattoo \- disc T@2 feature for Yamaha F1 CD-RW devices
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.br 
\fBf1tattoo [\-l] [\-h] \fr
.br 
\fBf1tattoo \-d DEVICE [\-c] [\-s] [\-\-tattoo-test]\fR
.br 
\fBf1tattoo \-d DEVICE \-\-tattoo-raw <file.raw>\fR
.br 
\fBf1tattoo \-d DEVICE \-\-tattoo-png <file.png>\fR
.br 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
f1tattoo is the linux console tool to use the Yamaha disc T@2 feature. You won't get satisfying results on Phtalocyanin dye.
.SH "FEATURES"
You can disc T@2 with these drives: 
.br 
Yamaha F1 CD-RW, Yamaha F1DX  

.SH "DEVICE"
can be an IDE, SCSI, SATA, USB or FireWire connected optical drive. Not all SATA controller support all Plextor features.

\fBLinux:\fR 
.br 
.I /dev/hdX:
IDE device
.br
.I /dev/scdX:
Linux 2.4: SATA, SCSI, USB device, or IDE device via ide-scsi emulation
.br
.I /dev/srX:
Linux 2.6: IDE device via new ATA layer, SCSI or USB device
.br

\fBOpenBSD/NetBSD:\fR
.br
.I /dev/rcdX
.br

\fBFreeBSD:\fR
.br
.I /dev/cd:
SCSI device
.br
.I /dev/acd:
ATA device
.br

\fBMacOS X:\fR
.br
.I /dev/disk:
.br

\fBwin32:\fR
.br
.I C:,D:,E:, ... X:,Y:,Z:
.br

.SH "OPTIONS"

\fB\-l, \-\-scanbus\fR   
.br
		scan busses for all available CD and DVD devices.

\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR   
.br
		help. show available options.
 
\fB\-c, \-\-current\fR   
.br
		show current drive settings of selected device

\fB\-s, \-\-supported\fR   
.br
		show supported features of selected device                        

\fB\-\-tattoo-test\fR  
.br
		write DiscT@2 test image

\fB\-\-tattoo-raw tattoo.raw\fR  
.br
		write DiscT@2 using raw data from tattoo.raw file

\fB\-\-tattoo-png tattoo.png\fR  
.br
		write DiscT@2 using png image from tattoo.png file
		check if f1tattoo compiled with png support using \-\-help option

\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR   
.br
		give verbose output
.SH "EXAMPLES"
\fBf1tattoo \-l\fR
.br 
		list all available CD- and DVD-devices\fR

\fBf1tattoo \-d /dev/hdc \-\-tattoo-raw filename.raw\fR
.br 
		writes DiscT@2 using filename.raw file on media in device /dev/hdc
\fR \fB
\fR \fB
\fR \fB
\fRplease report man page improvements to T.Maguin@web.de\fR
