.\" pxfw is released under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.TH "pxfw" "8" "26 Feb 2014"
.SH "NAME"
pxfw \- Firmware flashing tool for Plextor CD/DVD devices
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpxfw \-l
.br 
\fBpxfw \-d DEVICE [\-if\fR firmware.bin\fB] [\-u] [\-f] [\-v]\fR
.br 
\fBpxfw \-d DEVICE [\-e] [\-r] [\-t] [\-v]\fR
.br 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
pxfw is the linux firmware flasher for Plextor CD and DVD drives.  Remove any disks before flashing.
.SH "FEATURES"
You can flash the firmware of these drives: 
.br 
Plextor Premium, Premium-2, PX\-712, PX\-716, PX\-755 and PX\-760.
.br
.SH "DEVICE"
can be an IDE, SCSI, SATA, USB or FireWire connected optical drive. Not all SATA controller support all Plextor features.

\fBLinux:\fR 
.br 
.I /dev/hdX:
IDE device
.br
.I /dev/scdX:
Linux 2.4: SATA, SCSI, USB device, or IDE device via ide-scsi emulation
.br
.I /dev/srX:
Linux 2.6: IDE device via new ATA layer, SCSI or USB device
.br

\fBOpenBSD/NetBSD:\fR
.br
.I /dev/rcdX
.br

\fBFreeBSD:\fR
.br
.I /dev/cd:
SCSI device
.br
.I /dev/acd:
ATA device
.br

\fBMacOS X:\fR
.br
.I /dev/disk:
.br

\fBwin32:\fR
.br
.I C:,D:,E:, ... X:,Y:,Z:
.br

.SH "OPTIONS"

\fB\-l\fR   scan busses for all available CD and DVD devices
.br

\fB\-if\fR  select inputfile. Specify the firmware binary file, which should
.br 
     be written to DEVICE.
 
\fB\-u\fR   proceed update. When the firmware checksum test has succeeded, 
.br 
     write firmware to DEVICE.

\fB\-f\fR   force flashing. Even if DEVICE is not recognized, or firmware. 
.br 
     checksum has failed, firmware writing will be forced. 
.br 
     Handle with care.

\fB\-e\fR   read EEPROM from DEVICE.

\fB\-r\fR   reboot the device.
 
\fB\-t\fR   test which opcodes are supported by the device.
 
\fB\-v\fR   debug.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
\fBpxfw \-d /dev/hdc \-if 755_1.07.bin \-u\fR
.br 
writes firmware file 755_1.07.bin into Master Drive on Secondary IDE\-Port.

\fBpxfw \-d /dev/sr3 \-e \-oe file.foo\fR
.br 
reades EEPROM from device /dev/sr3 and writes it to file.foo.
\fR \fB
\fR \fB
\fR \fB
\fRplease report man page improvements to T.Maguin@web.de\fB
