.\" qscan is released under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.TH "qscan" "1" "26 Feb 2014"
.SH "NAME"
qscan \- console tool for quality measurement of optical media
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBqscan [\-l] [\-h] 
.br 
\fBqscan \-d DEVICE [\-S] [\-i] [\-m] \fR
.br 
\fBqscan \-d DEVICE [\-p] [\-r] [\-w] [\-v] \fR
.br 
\fBqscan \-d DEVICE [\-f] [\-s] [\-t] [\-v] \fR
.br 
\fBqscan \-d DEVICE \-t wt [\-s #] [\-W] \fR
.br 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
qscan is the linux console tool for error correction measuring with optical devices. 
The related plugin allows one to use vendor specific commands on your optical device. 
Currently supported vendors are Asus, Benq, Liteon, NEC, Pioneer and Plextor. 
For detailed information look at http://qpxtool.sourceforge.net/supported.html
.SH "DEVICE"
can be an IDE, SCSI, SATA, USB or FireWire connected optical drive. Not all SATA controller support all Plextor features.

\fBLinux:\fR 
.br 
.I /dev/hdX:
IDE device
.br
.I /dev/scdX:
Linux 2.4: SATA, SCSI, USB device, or IDE device via ide-scsi emulation
.br
.I /dev/srX:
Linux 2.6: IDE device via new ATA layer, SCSI or USB device
.br

\fBOpenBSD/NetBSD:\fR
.br
.I /dev/rcdX
.br

\fBFreeBSD:\fR
.br
.I /dev/cd:
SCSI device
.br
.I /dev/acd:
ATA device
.br

\fBMacOS X:\fR
.br
.I /dev/disk:
.br

\fBwin32:\fR
.br
.I C:,D:,E:, ... X:,Y:,Z:
.br

.SH "OPTIONS"

\fB\-l, \-\-scanbus\fR
.br
		scan busses for all available optical devices

\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR	
.br
		show help
 
\fB\-S, \-\-speeds\fR	
.br
		detect available read and write speeds for selected \-d DEVICE and the relating media 

\fB\-i, \-\-info\fR
.br
		show device info of selected \-d DEVICE  

\fB\-m, \-\-media\fR	
.br
		show media info of selected \-d DEVICE 

\fB\-p, \-\-plugins\fR   	
.br
		list all available plugins

\fB\-f, \-\-force-plugin PLUGIN [ ASUS | BENQ | BENQ_DVDROM |GENERIC |LITEON |NEC |PIONEER |PLEXTOR ]\fR   	
.br
		force usage of the selected plugin to use the vendor specific commands for the slected device. 
.br		
		Default behaviour auto detection modus.

\fB		[ASUS]\fR		use Asus vendor specific commands
.br
\fB		[BENQ]\fR		use Benq optical writer vendor specific commands
.br
\fB		[BENQ_DVDROM]\fR	use Benq optical reader vendor specific commands
.br
\fB		[GENERIC]\fR		use generic mmc commands
.br
\fB		[LITEON]\fR		use Liteon vendor specific commands
.br
\fB		[NEC]\fR		use NEC vendor specific commands
.br
\fB		[PIONEER]\fR		use Pioneer vendor specific commands
.br
\fB		[PLEXTOR]\fR		use Plextor vendor specific commands
.br

\fB\-r #, \-\-rspeed #\fR	
.br
		set read performance speed to selected value. 
.br
		Use \-S option before, if you are unsure which speeds are supported 
 
\fB\-s #, \-\-speed #\fR	
.br
		set measurement speed to selected value.
.br
		Use \-S option before, if you don't know what speeds are supported by your device.
.br
		Don't use this with \-r or \-w option. 

\fB\-t, \-\-test [rt|wt|errc|ft|jb|ta] \fR           
.br
		select the q-check you want to be proceeded. Not all tests are supported by all devices. 
.br
		For detailed information about the terms read the project page:
.br
		http://qpxtool.sourceforge.net/glossar.html 

\fB		[rt]\fR			read transfer rate measurement
.br
\fB		[wt]\fR			write transfer rate on blank media
.br
\fB		[errc]\fR		error correction \- Cx-scan / PIE, PIF, POE, POF
.br
\fB		[ft]\fR 		focus and tracking error measurement
.br
\fB		[jb]\fR			jitter and beta measurement
.br
\fB		[ta]\fR			time analyzer measurement
.br

\fB\-w #, \-\-wspeed #\fR	
.br
		set write speed to selected value. 
.br
		Use \-S option before, if you don't know what write speeds are supported by your device.
 
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
.br
		gives verbose output and debug information

\fB\-W, \-\-write\fR
.br
		perform real write instead simulation for write transfer rate

.SH "EXAMPLES"
\fBqscan \-l\fR
.br 
		scan all buses for available optical devices

\fBqscan \-d /dev/sr2 \-S\fR
.br 
		Show available speed steps of device /dev/sr2.

\fBqscan \-d /dev/sr2 \-t errc \-s 5\fR
.br 
		Proceed an error correction scan on device /dev/sr2 with 5x speed.

\fBqscan \-d /dev/sr0 \-t wt \-s 12\fR
.br
		Proceed a write performance test in simulation mode on device /dev/sr0 (dummy mode) with 12x speed
\fR \fB
\fR \fB
\fR \fB
\fRplease report man page improvements to T.Maguin@web.de\fB	
